1. DTD design

I decided to split the XML file in three parts: the catalog, the network
(the physical Infrastructure Network IN) and a part concerning NF-FGs.
I thought this latter part was optional since XML files respecting this DTD
could also be used useful just to describe physical networks without still any
NF-FG. The catalog anyway has to be defined because it would not be possible
to create any NF-FG since they have to contain at least one node, and nodes
have to specify the functional type that is associated to them: this is done
with the IDREF type, so it requires the corresponding functional type's ID
to exist. I implemented the VNF's functionalType attribute as an enum since
in the DP2-NFV system's JavaDoc, functional types cannot assume any other values
except for those one accepted by the Java it.polito.dp2.NFV.FunctionalType enum.
The network element has an hosts element and an optional channels element, since
there could be a network with hosts still not connected to each other.
Every host could have a list of nodes allocated to it. In the channel element,
I decided to specify the hosts connected to it by means of two IDREF attributes,
since a single IDREFS attribute cannot impose a limit on the number of hosts.
Even though it was not specified in the specification, a channel's latency is
optional since a virtual channel connecting an host to itself has a meaningless
latency value. I also supposed that, in the same previous case, a throughput
could assume a value tending towards infinity (even though the random generator
always produces a finite value), so that is why that attribute is also optional.
NF-FGs are identified by an ID attribute, and their deployTime is an element
with the (#PCDATA) model (text), because there is no other way to specify a
complete date and time instant including the time zone. Each node has an ID and
it refers to the functional type and to the host on which it has been allocated
by means of two IDREF attributes. Same thing with the links that have to specify
which are the source and destination node. As the specifications say, a link's
latency and throughput value is optional.

2. XSD design

For the sake of brevity, I will only list the differences concerning the
additional features that the XML Schema offers with respect to the DTD.
First, keys now have a scope: for example, link IDs are unique within a NF-FG.
NF-FG IDs instead are not keys but unique elements, as they are not referenced
by any other attribute in the document. In general, DTD's IDREFS attributes
have been transformed into a list of "reference elements", having just one
attribute referencing a key (xsd:keyref element). This was done because there
is no way to gather more keyrefs into one single attribute, as DTD allowed to
do with the IDREFS attribute type which could have grouped more IDREF attributes.
NF-FG deployTime now has a proper dateTime type (and not a general text type).
More specific data types are available in the XML schema, such as the xsd:token
data type which is a restriction of the string one.